# Explained: How mice learn to suppress fear, implications of this finding

![Image](https://images.indianexpress.com/2025/02/Over-the-years-scientists-while-studying-learning-and-memory-in-mice-have-focused-on-examining-the-visual-cortex.-Wikimedia-Commons.jpg?w=640)

A team of scientists has determined how the brain of a mouse overcomes
instinctive fear, according to the findings of a new study.

The findings can have implications for developing treatments to benefit people
who struggle with fear-related disorders, including phobias, anxiety and post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

There are two regions in the brain that work together to learn to suppress
responses to perceived threats that prove harmless over time, the analysis has
revealed. The study, ‘Overwriting an instinct: Visual cortex instructs
learning to suppress fear responses’, was published in the journal Science on
February 6. It was carried out by researchers based at the University College
London (the United Kingdom).

Story continues below this ad

Sara Mederos, a neuroscientist at University College London who led the study,
told The Washington Post, “We have uncovered the mechanism by which the brain
— through experience — can understand which potential instinctive dangers are
actually not a danger.”

## **How was the study carried out?**

In a laboratory experiment, the researchers exposed 100 mice to a repeated
visual threat that proved harmless over time — in this case, an expanding dark
circle that imitated a swooping bird.

To teach the mice that the dark circle was not dangerous, the researchers
introduced a barrier to prevent the mice from hiding.

“Initially, the mice ran for shelter when the ominous shadow [of the bird]
appeared, as their classic instinctive fear response kicked in. But after 30
to 50 simulated swoops, the scientists observed something: The mice came to
realise the threat was harmless and learned to suppress their instinct,” the
Washington Post report said.

Story continues below this ad

Once that happened, the mice stopped paying attention to the dark circle and
continued to forage and explore as usual.

Researchers had also inserted silicon probes into the brains of mice, and used
them to track the mammal’s neural mechanisms as they learnt to suppress their
instinctive fear.

**What did it observe about mice behaviour?**

According to the study, two brain areas were involved in helping the mice
learn to distinguish the lack of threat.

One was the visual cortex, which processes visual information. This region
played a role in learning to suppress the fear reaction. The other region was
the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus (vLGN), where the brain stores memories
to disregard instinctive fears.

Story continues below this ad

Over the years, scientists, while studying learning and memory in mice, have
focused on examining the visual cortex. However, they did not quite explore
the vLGN.

This area is located “between the neocortex, which detects a threat, and the
brain stem, which activates the body’s instinctive response,” the Washington
Post report said.

This is the first time that scientists have realised that the vLGN plays a
role in recalling a learnt behaviour.

The researchers hope that one day, they will be able to develop drugs targeted
specifically to the vLGN, helping humans deal with anxiety or PTSD.

Story continues below this ad

“Targeting brain areas like the ventrolateral geniculate nucleus could open up
new avenues to treat these disorders,” Mederos told Washington Post.

