# Complaint filed against Ranveer Allahbadia, others for ‘offensive remarks’ on India’s Got Latent; YouTuber apologises for ‘lapse in judgement’

![Image](https://th-i.thgim.com/public/incoming/la6z7o/article69202099.ece/alternates/LANDSCAPE_1200/Screenshot%20994.png)

The Mumbai police has initiated an inquiry, following a formal complaint filed
against YouTuber Ranveer Allahbadia, social media influencer Apoorva Makhija,
comedian Samay Raina, and the organisers of the show ‘ India’s Got Latent ’
after a series of alleged controversial and offensive remarks made on the
show.

“Inquiry is going on,” Mumbai police officials said. No case has been
registered so far.

The complaint, registered with both the Mumbai Commissioner and the
Maharashtra Women’s Commission, alleges that abusive language was used on the
show. The complainant has demanded strict legal action against the accused.
The controversy erupted after remarks made by Allahbadia during a YouTube
episode of ‘ India’s Got Latent ’ were deemed offensive and derogatory.

Notably, popular social media personality Ranveer Allahbadia has been trolled
for his distasteful comment on parents and sex on Samay Raina’s “India’s Got
Latent” show, popular among today’s youth for its edgy bordering on offensive
content.

The complaint filed accuses the organisers and participants of deliberately
making obscene remarks about women’s private parts with the intent to gain
popularity and financial gain through the online broadcast. The broadcast,
which aired globally on YouTube, featured the accused laughing and making
inappropriate jokes about women, which the complainant describes as a serious
offence.

#### Family is the last thing I would ever disrespect: Allahbadia

Meanwhile, Allahbadia issued a public apology following the backlash. Taking
to X (formerly Twitter), he expressed regret for his remarks, acknowledging
that they were inappropriate and lacked sensitivity.

In a video, Allahbadia said, “I shouldn’t have said what I said on India’s
Got Latent. I’m sorry.” He further admitted, “My comment wasn’t just
inappropriate, it wasn’t even funny. Comedy is not my forte. I personally had
a lapse in judgement that wasn’t cool on my part, especially on a platform
watched by people of all ages.”

The influencer stressed his commitment to using his platform responsibly,
stating, “Family is the last thing I would ever disrespect. [I] need to use
this platform better—that’s been my learning from the whole experience.”

Allahbadia said that he has requested the makers of the video to remove the
insensitive portions and promised to improve moving forward. He concluded his
statement by asking for forgiveness, saying, “All I can say is, I’m sorry. I
hope you can forgive me as a human being.”

Allahbadia was one of the online content creators who last year received a
National Creators Award from Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an event in New
Delhi. In the past, the podcaster partnered with the Digital India Corporation
to interview a series of Cabinet Ministers.

#### Remarks were made with the intention of profiting from controversy:
complaint

The complaint emphasised that such remarks were made with the intention of
profiting from controversy, with no regard for the harm caused to women’s
dignity or the negative influence on young audiences, particularly minors, who
might have been exposed to these comments.

In response to the incident, Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis
said, “I have come to know about it. I have not seen it yet. Things have been
said and presented in a wrong way. Everyone has freedom of speech, but our
freedom ends when we encroach upon the freedom of others. In our society, we
have made some rules, if someone violates them, it is absolutely wrong, and
action should be taken against them.”

Former National Commission for Women (NCW) Chief and Rajya Sabha MP, Rekha
Sharma, also expressed her shock over the remarks. “The video is very shocking
and I think whether it is a female or a male, this kind of joke is never
accepted by society. Making jokes about a mother or a female’s body doesn’t
look good and somewhere it shows how today’s youth has stooped down to such a
level morally. I think such jokes affect others who are engaged in similar
creative things. I have just forwarded that video to the NCW Chairperson to
take action.”

Shiv Sena, through its spokesperson Raju Wagamare, also condemned the remarks
made on the show.

The spokesperson issued a stern warning to the producers, “In the State of
Maharashtra, under the legacy of Shivaji Maharaj, such language will not be
tolerated. They should stop all this immediately; otherwise, we will take
action in our own style.”

In the complaint, the concerned party emphasises the severity of the incident
and its damaging effects on women’s honour.

“Through this complaint letter, I wish to draw your attention to a highly
sensitive incident. The actions of these individuals have caused harm to
women’s dignity and honour. They have deliberately made obscene comments about
women’s private parts with the intent of gaining popularity and making money.”

The letter goes on to call for immediate legal action against the organisers
of India’s Got Latent and for the broadcast to be halted.

The complainant stresses that criminal cases should be filed under the Indian
Penal Code against the organisers of the show and that a First Information
Report (FIR) should be registered against all those involved in the incident.

(With inputs from PTI, ANI)

Published \- February 10, 2025 02:23 pm IST

Read Comments

  * Copy link 
  * Email 
  * Facebook 
  * Twitter 
  * Telegram 
  * LinkedIn 
  * WhatsApp 
  * Reddit 

READ LATER

Remove  SEE ALL

PRINT

###  Related Topics

entertainment (general)  /  arts, culture and entertainment  /  police

