# Panama president to US: stop ‘lies and falsehoods’ about canal

![Image](https://images.indianexpress.com/2025/02/Jose-Raul-Mulino.jpg?w=640)


 Panama’s President José Raúl Mulino on Thursday accused US of spreading a
“quite simply intolerable falsehood” about the Panama Canal, as tensions
between the two countries escalate over Donald Trump’s claim that the US
should “take back” the waterway.

charging US government vessels canal tolls, allegedly saving Washington
millions. However, the Panama Canal Authority denied making any changes to its
fees.

“I am extremely surprised by yesterday’s State Department announcement because
they are making important statements … based on a falsehood, and this is
intolerable, quite simply intolerable,” Mulino said on Thursday. He later
announced plans to speak with Trump by phone on Friday.

Story continues below this ad

Also read | Trump threatens to ‘demand the return’ of Panama Canal: What is its history, significance?

Mulino said he asked his ambassador in Washington to take “firm steps” to
reject the claims made by the Trump administration.

The dispute follows Trump’s repeated claim that the US “foolishly” returned
the canal to Panama in 1999, only for China to take control. “And we’re going
to take it back, or something very powerful is going to happen,” Trump warned.

US Secretary of State Marco **Rubio echoed Trump’s concerns during a visit to
Panama** , calling China’s influence over the canal “unacceptable” and warning
that the US might have to “take measures necessary to protect its rights.” He
later defended the US stance, stating, “The United States has a treaty
obligation to protect the Panama Canal if it comes under attack … I find it
absurd that we would have to pay fees to transit a zone that we are obligated
to protect in a time of conflict.”

While military action to reclaim the canal is considered unlikely, past US
interventions—such as George HW Bush’s 1989 invasion to remove Panama’s leader
Manuel Noriega—suggest it is not impossible.

Story continues below this ad

Also read | The Panama Canal: Trump’s bold claims and the history behind the waterway

Trump’s rhetoric appears aimed at countering China’s growing economic presence
in Latin America. His strategy may be working, as Mulino announced Thursday
that Panama was withdrawing from China’s Belt and Road Initiative, a massive
infrastructure and investment program aimed at expanding Beijing’s global
influence.

China, meanwhile, condemned the US position, with Foreign Ministry
spokesperson Lin Jian accusing Washington of making “irresponsible remarks”
and “intentionally distorting, attacking, and mischaracterizing” Panama’s
cooperation with Beijing.

