# Rupee falls 3 paise to 86.65 against U.S. dollar in early trade

![Image](https://th-i.thgim.com/public/incoming/oahn15/article67874298.ece/alternates/LANDSCAPE_1200/VBK-RUPEE.jpg)


 The rupee traded in a narrow range and depreciated 3 paise to 86.65 against
the U.S. dollar in early trade on Friday (January 31, 2025), ahead of the
release of Economic Survey 2024-25.

Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will table Economic Survey 2024-25 on
Friday (January 31, 2025), providing an official assessment of the performance
of the economy in the ongoing financial year, and list out the challenges
being faced by the nation.

****Also Read |Economic Survey 2025 LIVE: Survey to be tabled in Lok Sabha at
12 p.m., 2 PM in Rajya Sabha****

Forex traders said the rupee continued to face pressure due to sustained
foreign fund outflows and the broad strength of the American currency in the
overseas markets due to unabated dollar demand from oil importers and weak
risk appetite.

At the interbank foreign exchange, the rupee opened at 86.63 then fell further
to 86.65 against the American currency, registering a decline of 3 paise over
its previous close.

On Thursday (January 30, 2025), the rupee depreciated 7 paise to close at
86.62 against the U.S. dollar.

“The Indian rupee continues to struggle, hovering near its all-time low,
weighed down by multiple headwinds. A significant foreign fund outflows,
expectations of monetary easing by the Reserve bank of India, and lingering
uncertainty over U.S. President Donald Trump’s trade tariffs have all
contributed to the pressure,” CR Forex Advisors MD - Amit Pabari said.

Adding to the turbulence, the European Central Bank’s 25-basis-point rate cut
has bolstered the U.S. dollar index.

Moreover, the upcoming Union Budget 2025 is set to be a pivotal moment for the
Indian economy.

“Increased government spending could raise the rupee supply, leading to
depreciation. Conversely, strategic investments and policy reforms might
attract FII inflows, lending support to the currency. The budget’s impact on
capital flows and fiscal discipline will be key in determining the rupee’s
fate,” Mr. Pabari added.

Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a
basket of six currencies, was at 108.20, higher by 0.37%.

Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, was quoted 0.83% higher at ₹77.51 per
barrel in futures trade.

In the domestic equity market, the 30-share BSE Sensex was trading 192.97
points or 0.25% up at 76,952.78 in morning trade, while Nifty was higher by
72.70 points or 0.31% to 23,322.20.

Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) offloaded equities worth ₹4,582.95
crore in the capital markets on net basis on Thursday (January 30, 2025),
according to exchange data.

Published \- January 31, 2025 11:23 am IST

Read Comments

  * Copy link 
  * Email 
  * Facebook 
  * Twitter 
  * Telegram 
  * LinkedIn 
  * WhatsApp 
  * Reddit 

READ LATER

Remove  SEE ALL

PRINT

###  Related Topics

market and exchange  /  currency values  /  economy, business and finance  /
financial markets

